README.md, before:

# FBK-fairseq

This repository contains the open source code by the MT unit of FBK.
Dedicated README for each work can be found in the `fbk_works` directory.

 ### 2025

 - [[NAACL 2025] **Prepending or Cross-Attention for Speech-to-Text? An Empirical Comparison**](fbk_works/DECODER_PREPENDING.md)

### 2024

 - [[IWSLT 2024] **SimulSeamless: FBK at IWSLT 2024 Simultaneous Speech Translation**](fbk_works/SIMULSEAMLESS.md)
 - [[ACL 2024] **StreamAtt: Direct Streaming Speech-to-Text Translation with Attention-based Audio History Selection**](fbk_works/STREAMATT_STREAMLAAL.md)
 - [[ACL 2024] **SBAAM! Eliminating Transcript Dependency in Automatic Subtitling**](fbk_works/SBAAM.md)
 - [[ACL 2024] **When Good and Reproducible Results are a Giant with Feet of Clay: The Importance of Software Quality in NLP**](fbk_works/BUGFREE_CONFORMER.md)
 - [[LREC-COLING 2024] **How do Hyenas deal with Human Speech? Speech Recognition and Translation with ConfHyena**](fbk_works/HYENA_COLING2024.md)

 ### 2023

 - [[CLiC-IT 2023] **How To Build Competitive Multi-gender Speech Translation Models For Controlling Speaker Gender Translation**](fbk_works/MULTIGENDER_CLIC_2023.md)
 - [[EMNLP 2023] **Integrating Language Models into Direct Speech Translation: An Inference-Time Solution to Control Gender Inflection**](fbk_works/SHALLOW_FUSION_GENDER_BIAS.md)
 - [[WMT 2023] **Test Suites Task: Evaluation of Gender Fairness in MT with MuST-SHE and INES**](fbk_works/INES_eval.md)
 - [[ASRU 2023] **No Pitch Left Behind: Addressing Gender Unbalance in Automatic Speech Recognition Through Pitch Manipulation**](fbk_works/PITCH_MANIPULATION_ASR.md)
 - [[TACL 2023] **Direct Speech Translation for Automatic Subtitling**](fbk_works/DIRECT_SUBTITLING.md)
 - [[INTERSPEECH 2023] **AlignAtt: Using Attention-based Audio-Translation Alignments as a Guide for Simultaneous Speech Translation**](fbk_works/ALIGNATT_SIMULST_AGENT_INTERSPEECH2023.md)
 - [[INTERSPEECH 2023] **Joint Speech Translation and Named Entity Recognition**](fbk_works/JOINT_ST_NER2023.md)
 - [[ACL 2023] **Attention as a Guide for Simultaneous Speech Translation**](fbk_works/EDATT_SIMULST_AGENT_ACL2023.md)
 - [[IWSLT 2023] **Direct Models for Simultaneous Translation and Automatic Subtitling: FBK@IWSLT2023**](fbk_works/IWSLT_2023.md)

 ### 2022

 - [[AACL2022] **Dodging the Data Bottleneck: Automatic Subtitling with Automatically Segmented ST Corpora**](fbk_works/SUBTITLE_SEGMENTER_AACL2022.md)
 - [[EMNLP2022 Findings] **Does Simultaneous Speech Translation need Simultaneous Models?**](fbk_works/SIMULTANEOUS_OFFLINE_ST.md)
 - [[AutoSimTrans2022] **Over-Generation Cannot Be Rewarded: Length-Adaptive Average Lagging for Simultaneous Speech Translation**](fbk_works/LAAL.md)
 - [[IWSLT2022] **Who Are We Talking About? Handling Person Names in Speech Translation**](fbk_works/PERSON_NAMES_IWSLT2022.md)
 - [[IWSLT2022] **Efficient yet Competitive Speech Translation: FBK@IWSLT2022**](fbk_works/IWSLT_2022.md)

### 2021

 - [[EMNLP2021] **Speechformer: Reducing Information Loss in Direct Speech Translation**](fbk_works/SPEECHFORMER.md)


If using this repository, please acknowledge the related paper(s) citing them.
Bibtex citations are available for each work in the dedicated README file.

## Installation

To install the repository, do:

```
pip install -e .
pip install -r speech_requirements.txt  # required for speech translation
```


Below, there is the original Fairseq README file.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/fairseq_logo.png" width="150">
  <br />
  <br />
  <a href="https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/blob/master/LICENSE"><img alt="MIT License" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg" /></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/releases"><img alt="Latest Release" src="https://img.shields.io/github/release/pytorch/fairseq.svg" /></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/actions?query=workflow:build"><img alt="Build Status" src="https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/workflows/build/badge.svg" /></a>
  <a href="https://fairseq.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest"><img alt="Documentation Status" src="https://readthedocs.org/projects/fairseq/badge/?version=latest" /></a>
</p>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fairseq(-py) is a sequence modeling toolkit that allows researchers and
developers to train custom models for translation, summarization, language
modeling and other text generation tasks.

We provide reference implementations of various sequence modeling papers:

<details><summary>List of implemented papers</summary><p>

* **Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN)**
  + [Language Modeling with Gated Convolutional Networks (Dauphin et al., 2017)](examples/language_model/conv_lm/README.md)
  + [Convolutional Sequence to Sequence Learning (Gehring et al., 2017)](examples/conv_seq2seq/README.md)
  + [Classical Structured Prediction Losses for Sequence to Sequence Learning (Edunov et al., 2018)](https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/tree/classic_seqlevel)
  + [Hierarchical Neural Story Generation (Fan et al., 2018)](examples/stories/README.md)
  + [wav2vec: Unsupervised Pre-training for Speech Recognition (Schneider et al., 2019)](examples/wav2vec/README.md)
* **LightConv and DynamicConv models**
  + [Pay Less Attention with Lightweight and Dynamic Convolutions (Wu et al., 2019)](examples/pay_less_attention_paper/README.md)
* **Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks**
  + Effective Approaches to Attention-based Neural Machine Translation (Luong et al., 2015)
* **Transformer (self-attention) networks**
  + Attention Is All You Need (Vaswani et al., 2017)
  + [Scaling Neural Machine Translation (Ott et al., 2018)](examples/scaling_nmt/README.md)
  + [Understanding Back-Translation at Scale (Edunov et al., 2018)](examples/backtranslation/README.md)
  + [Adaptive Input Representations for Neural Language Modeling (Baevski and Auli, 2018)](examples/language_model/README.adaptive_inputs.md)
  + [Lexically constrained decoding with dynamic beam allocation (Post & Vilar, 2018)](examples/constrained_decoding/README.md)
  + [Transformer-XL: Attentive Language Models Beyond a Fixed-Length Context (Dai et al., 2019)](examples/truncated_bptt/README.md)
  + [Adaptive Attention Span in Transformers (Sukhbaatar et al., 2019)](examples/adaptive_span/README.md)
  + [Mixture Models for Diverse Machine Translation: Tricks of the Trade (Shen et al., 2019)](examples/translation_moe/README.md)
  + [RoBERTa: A Robustly Optimized BERT Pretraining Approach (Liu et al., 2019)](examples/roberta/README.md)
  + [Facebook FAIR's WMT19 News Translation Task Submission (Ng et al., 2019)](examples/wmt19/README.md)
  + [Jointly Learning to Align and Translate with Transformer Models (Garg et al., 2019)](examples/joint_alignment_translation/README.md )
  + [Multilingual Denoising Pre-training for Neural Machine Translation (Liu et at., 2020)](examples/mbart/README.md)
  + [Neural Machine Translation with Byte-Level Subwords (Wang et al., 2020)](examples/byte_level_bpe/README.md)
  + [Unsupervised Quality Estimation for Neural Machine Translation (Fomicheva et al., 2020)](examples/unsupervised_quality_estimation/README.md)
  + [wav2vec 2.0: A Framework for Self-Supervised Learning of Speech Representations (Baevski et al., 2020)](examples/wav2vec/README.md)
  + [Generating Medical Reports from Patient-Doctor Conversations Using Sequence-to-Sequence Models (Enarvi et al., 2020)](examples/pointer_generator/README.md)
  + [Linformer: Self-Attention with Linear Complexity (Wang et al., 2020)](examples/linformer/README.md)
  + [Cross-lingual Retrieval for Iterative Self-Supervised Training (Tran et al., 2020)](examples/criss/README.md)
  + [Deep Transformers with Latent Depth (Li et al., 2020)](examples/latent_depth/README.md)
* **Non-autoregressive Transformers**
  + Non-Autoregressive Neural Machine Translation (Gu et al., 2017)
  + Deterministic Non-Autoregressive Neural Sequence Modeling by Iterative Refinement (Lee et al. 2018)
  + Insertion Transformer: Flexible Sequence Generation via Insertion Operations (Stern et al. 2019)
  + Mask-Predict: Parallel Decoding of Conditional Masked Language Models (Ghazvininejad et al., 2019)
  + [Levenshtein Transformer (Gu et al., 2019)](examples/nonautoregressive_translation/README.md)
* **Finetuning**
  + [Better Fine-Tuning by Reducing Representational Collapse (Aghajanyan et al. 2020)](examples/rxf/README.md)

</p></details>

### What's New:

* December 2020: [GottBERT model and code released](examples/gottbert/README.md)
* November 2020: Adopted the [Hydra](https://github.com/facebookresearch/hydra) configuration framework
  * [see documentation explaining how to use it for new and existing projects](docs/hydra_integration.md)
* November 2020: [fairseq 0.10.0 released](https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/releases/tag/v0.10.0)
* October 2020: [Added R3F/R4F (Better Fine-Tuning) code](examples/rxf/README.md)
* October 2020: [Deep Transformer with Latent Depth code released](examples/latent_depth/README.md)
* October 2020: [Added CRISS models and code](examples/criss/README.md)
* September 2020: [Added Linformer code](examples/linformer/README.md)
* September 2020: [Added pointer-generator networks](examples/pointer_generator/README.md)
* August 2020: [Added lexically constrained decoding](examples/constrained_decoding/README.md)
* August 2020: [wav2vec2 models and code released](examples/wav2vec/README.md)
* July 2020: [Unsupervised Quality Estimation code released](examples/unsupervised_quality_estimation/README.md)

<details><summary>Previous updates</summary><p>

* May 2020: [Follow fairseq on Twitter](https://twitter.com/fairseq)
* April 2020: [Monotonic Multihead Attention code released](examples/simultaneous_translation/README.md)
* April 2020: [Quant-Noise code released](examples/quant_noise/README.md)
* April 2020: [Initial model parallel support and 11B parameters unidirectional LM released](examples/megatron_11b/README.md)
* March 2020: [Byte-level BPE code released](examples/byte_level_bpe/README.md)
* February 2020: [mBART model and code released](examples/mbart/README.md)
* February 2020: [Added tutorial for back-translation](https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/tree/master/examples/backtranslation#training-your-own-model-wmt18-english-german)
* December 2019: [fairseq 0.9.0 released](https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/releases/tag/v0.9.0)
* November 2019: [VizSeq released (a visual analysis toolkit for evaluating fairseq models)](https://facebookresearch.github.io/vizseq/docs/getting_started/fairseq_example)
* November 2019: [CamemBERT model and code released](examples/camembert/README.md)
* November 2019: [BART model and code released](examples/bart/README.md)
* November 2019: [XLM-R models and code released](examples/xlmr/README.md)
* September 2019: [Nonautoregressive translation code released](examples/nonautoregressive_translation/README.md)
* August 2019: [WMT'19 models released](examples/wmt19/README.md)
* July 2019: fairseq relicensed under MIT license
* July 2019: [RoBERTa models and code released](examples/roberta/README.md)
* June 2019: [wav2vec models and code released](examples/wav2vec/README.md)

</p></details>

### Features:

* multi-GPU training on one machine or across multiple machines (data and model parallel)
* fast generation on both CPU and GPU with multiple search algorithms implemented:
  + beam search
  + Diverse Beam Search ([Vijayakumar et al., 2016](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.02424))
  + sampling (unconstrained, top-k and top-p/nucleus)
  + [lexically constrained decoding](examples/constrained_decoding/README.md) (Post & Vilar, 2018)
* [gradient accumulation](https://fairseq.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started.html#large-mini-batch-training-with-delayed-updates) enables training with large mini-batches even on a single GPU
* [mixed precision training](https://fairseq.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started.html#training-with-half-precision-floating-point-fp16) (trains faster with less GPU memory on [NVIDIA tensor cores](https://developer.nvidia.com/tensor-cores))
* [extensible](https://fairseq.readthedocs.io/en/latest/overview.html): easily register new models, criterions, tasks, optimizers and learning rate schedulers
* [flexible configuration](docs/hydra_integration.md) based on [Hydra](https://github.com/facebookresearch/hydra) allowing a combination of code, command-line and file based configuration

We also provide [pre-trained models for translation and language modeling](#pre-trained-models-and-examples)
with a convenient `torch.hub` interface:

``` python
en2de = torch.hub.load('pytorch/fairseq', 'transformer.wmt19.en-de.single_model')
en2de.translate('Hello world', beam=5)
# 'Hallo Welt'
```

See the PyTorch Hub tutorials for [translation](https://pytorch.org/hub/pytorch_fairseq_translation/)
and [RoBERTa](https://pytorch.org/hub/pytorch_fairseq_roberta/) for more examples.

# Requirements and Installation

* [PyTorch](http://pytorch.org/) version >= 1.5.0
* Python version >= 3.6
* For training new models, you'll also need an NVIDIA GPU and [NCCL](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nccl)
* **To install fairseq** and develop locally:

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq
cd fairseq
pip install --editable ./

# on MacOS:
# CFLAGS="-stdlib=libc++" pip install --editable ./

# to install the latest stable release (0.10.0)
# pip install fairseq==0.10.0
```

* **For faster training** install NVIDIA's [apex](https://github.com/NVIDIA/apex) library:

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/NVIDIA/apex
cd apex
pip install -v --no-cache-dir --global-option="--cpp_ext" --global-option="--cuda_ext" \
  --global-option="--deprecated_fused_adam" --global-option="--xentropy" \
  --global-option="--fast_multihead_attn" ./
```

* **For large datasets** install [PyArrow](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/python/install.html#using-pip): `pip install pyarrow`
* If you use Docker make sure to increase the shared memory size either with `--ipc=host` or `--shm-size`
 as command line options to `nvidia-docker run` .

# Getting Started

The [full documentation](https://fairseq.readthedocs.io/) contains instructions
for getting started, training new models and extending fairseq with new model
types and tasks.

# Pre-trained models and examples

We provide pre-trained models and pre-processed, binarized test sets for several tasks listed below,
as well as example training and evaluation commands.

* [Translation](examples/translation/README.md): convolutional and transformer models are available
* [Language Modeling](examples/language_model/README.md): convolutional and transformer models are available

We also have more detailed READMEs to reproduce results from specific papers:

* [Cross-lingual Retrieval for Iterative Self-Supervised Training (Tran et al., 2020)](examples/criss/README.md)
* [wav2vec 2.0: A Framework for Self-Supervised Learning of Speech Representations (Baevski et al., 2020)](examples/wav2vec/README.md)
* [Unsupervised Quality Estimation for Neural Machine Translation (Fomicheva et al., 2020)](examples/unsupervised_quality_estimation/README.md)
* [Training with Quantization Noise for Extreme Model Compression ({Fan*, Stock*} et al., 2020)](examples/quant_noise/README.md)
* [Neural Machine Translation with Byte-Level Subwords (Wang et al., 2020)](examples/byte_level_bpe/README.md)
* [Multilingual Denoising Pre-training for Neural Machine Translation (Liu et at., 2020)](examples/mbart/README.md)
* [Reducing Transformer Depth on Demand with Structured Dropout (Fan et al., 2019)](examples/layerdrop/README.md)
* [Jointly Learning to Align and Translate with Transformer Models (Garg et al., 2019)](examples/joint_alignment_translation/README.md)
* [Levenshtein Transformer (Gu et al., 2019)](examples/nonautoregressive_translation/README.md)
* [Facebook FAIR's WMT19 News Translation Task Submission (Ng et al., 2019)](examples/wmt19/README.md)
* [RoBERTa: A Robustly Optimized BERT Pretraining Approach (Liu et al., 2019)](examples/roberta/README.md)
* [wav2vec: Unsupervised Pre-training for Speech Recognition (Schneider et al., 2019)](examples/wav2vec/README.md)
* [Mixture Models for Diverse Machine Translation: Tricks of the Trade (Shen et al., 2019)](examples/translation_moe/README.md)
* [Pay Less Attention with Lightweight and Dynamic Convolutions (Wu et al., 2019)](examples/pay_less_attention_paper/README.md)
* [Understanding Back-Translation at Scale (Edunov et al., 2018)](examples/backtranslation/README.md)
* [Classical Structured Prediction Losses for Sequence to Sequence Learning (Edunov et al., 2018)](https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/tree/classic_seqlevel)
* [Hierarchical Neural Story Generation (Fan et al., 2018)](examples/stories/README.md)
* [Scaling Neural Machine Translation (Ott et al., 2018)](examples/scaling_nmt/README.md)
* [Convolutional Sequence to Sequence Learning (Gehring et al., 2017)](examples/conv_seq2seq/README.md)
* [Language Modeling with Gated Convolutional Networks (Dauphin et al., 2017)](examples/language_model/README.conv.md)

# Join the fairseq community

* Twitter: https://twitter.com/fairseq
* Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/groups/fairseq.users
* Google group: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/fairseq-users

# License

fairseq(-py) is MIT-licensed.
The license applies to the pre-trained models as well.

# Citation

Please cite as:

``` bibtex
@inproceedings{ott2019fairseq,
  title = {fairseq: A Fast, Extensible Toolkit for Sequence Modeling},
  author = {Myle Ott and Sergey Edunov and Alexei Baevski and Angela Fan and Sam Gross and Nathan Ng and David Grangier and Michael Auli},
  booktitle = {Proceedings of NAACL-HLT 2019: Demonstrations},
  year = {2019},
}
```

Commit message:

[!215][RELEASE] SPES
# Which work do we release?
"SPES: Spectrogram Perturbation for Explainable Speech-to-Text Generation"

# What changes does this release refer to?
7f7699d1fae4650832d8733cbf54d9279d04da35
3701eaa55ab5b599b23a93df0556760d92da78fc
ca14dac9548d0be2f2132924e5bdcbe0c4013285
4641fda1a20569fb388341de12ad164084752607
43172daab2819f0a7810e5daf3c50fbc734ec7d8
076dd532cb7d806c242db44d86c355f6342dd2df
c60003bbefc11f7900994b132fb7325237cd2273
713868e03517ee55949a906a26e89d0949f078c0
35c8e41a2ecdf6935076c1d6508279fde3045449
5edbeefe03f3f36ec733edfff3e47f2f53ffcf63
221e192c4f391235b87db8a257109a7a61f82a5f
e8692a74ad84ad02af9ccafc4bc1e843f280a2aa
153d6a472262d100b6961f6d42beb691cdb7d64b
d319d2167b150c791f4e0b52a1aacf9a1b1d2024
138253d9776a640fe025fb3c257755b4617d360b
abd64ee4855a2af20142408907e030c8558c5a4c
777ebafb800e4e6046ac99b87d5a0ec48f607428
644e119553f9c98f7a1c25c15d451b9275e6fffa
62458c83df0870957d4b77f3b80c65c53d06720f
c5ccce6d0e24cb9321d22807313871d7804143fc
9fbea0a6d532195c0c6cf741269bb702d9b0d650
79bb24d851827331960f7eab865390d54fec60c6
7f233227560762bd88c343e74fd065c9bb89e3e3
c7889680c86b1472aff8498a8fa82d015a83fc75
96a8559d4f3ac89aee4c1910ecf2b2eabcae4ceb
e5ff5114b30cd25a4483827ed626084722db6138
48f88052374399761737712eac63dca56690e5d9
6d94a866c2232026b0b536f4ecb01e4ba89d4dc8
12a298bcc00279f73aa8ce0a28cf718eed073fb3
b24bc8f54a26f7d34aed560922259d7589ec2211
b2be28cbee0c030af61915a34d1c32879b13b14b
cd2df8732803f0585f7cef8a9b0d6d1b1e889fbd
4ddadaeaf31c8dbd98b82c639f31ad0bb7dbfc50
b02228eb9652819a2605a29285574c224eae7d53
a039fbdbf029d547aad3848555a49068bee6ae6a
019e89c7a9ed9fd42cd6a6f0a973b1334944b69f
3b8fd52a1f5ce04cd6cbaa42198f32a1d1a6d2c3
07db9c8987dd8c5fc8779a5dce787434d36dd695
c345d58f500b782bb2308cfb093e716aa4361de6

README.md, after:

# FBK-fairseq

This repository contains the open source code by the MT unit of FBK.
Dedicated README for each work can be found in the `fbk_works` directory.

 ### 2025

 - [[NAACL 2025] **Prepending or Cross-Attention for Speech-to-Text? An Empirical Comparison**](fbk_works/DECODER_PREPENDING.md)

### 2024

 - [**SPES: Spectrogram Perturbation for Explainable Speech-to-Text Generation**](fbk_works/XAI_FEATURE_ATTRIBUTION.md)
 - [[IWSLT 2024] **SimulSeamless: FBK at IWSLT 2024 Simultaneous Speech Translation**](fbk_works/SIMULSEAMLESS.md)
 - [[ACL 2024] **StreamAtt: Direct Streaming Speech-to-Text Translation with Attention-based Audio History Selection**](fbk_works/STREAMATT_STREAMLAAL.md)
 - [[ACL 2024] **SBAAM! Eliminating Transcript Dependency in Automatic Subtitling**](fbk_works/SBAAM.md)
 - [[ACL 2024] **When Good and Reproducible Results are a Giant with Feet of Clay: The Importance of Software Quality in NLP**](fbk_works/BUGFREE_CONFORMER.md)
 - [[LREC-COLING 2024] **How do Hyenas deal with Human Speech? Speech Recognition and Translation with ConfHyena**](fbk_works/HYENA_COLING2024.md)

 ### 2023

 - [[CLiC-IT 2023] **How To Build Competitive Multi-gender Speech Translation Models For Controlling Speaker Gender Translation**](fbk_works/MULTIGENDER_CLIC_2023.md)
 - [[EMNLP 2023] **Integrating Language Models into Direct Speech Translation: An Inference-Time Solution to Control Gender Inflection**](fbk_works/SHALLOW_FUSION_GENDER_BIAS.md)
 - [[WMT 2023] **Test Suites Task: Evaluation of Gender Fairness in MT with MuST-SHE and INES**](fbk_works/INES_eval.md)
 - [[ASRU 2023] **No Pitch Left Behind: Addressing Gender Unbalance in Automatic Speech Recognition Through Pitch Manipulation**](fbk_works/PITCH_MANIPULATION_ASR.md)
 - [[TACL 2023] **Direct Speech Translation for Automatic Subtitling**](fbk_works/DIRECT_SUBTITLING.md)
 - [[INTERSPEECH 2023] **AlignAtt: Using Attention-based Audio-Translation Alignments as a Guide for Simultaneous Speech Translation**](fbk_works/ALIGNATT_SIMULST_AGENT_INTERSPEECH2023.md)
 - [[INTERSPEECH 2023] **Joint Speech Translation and Named Entity Recognition**](fbk_works/JOINT_ST_NER2023.md)
 - [[ACL 2023] **Attention as a Guide for Simultaneous Speech Translation**](fbk_works/EDATT_SIMULST_AGENT_ACL2023.md)
 - [[IWSLT 2023] **Direct Models for Simultaneous Translation and Automatic Subtitling: FBK@IWSLT2023**](fbk_works/IWSLT_2023.md)

 ### 2022

 - [[AACL2022] **Dodging the Data Bottleneck: Automatic Subtitling with Automatically Segmented ST Corpora**](fbk_works/SUBTITLE_SEGMENTER_AACL2022.md)
 - [[EMNLP2022 Findings] **Does Simultaneous Speech Translation need Simultaneous Models?**](fbk_works/SIMULTANEOUS_OFFLINE_ST.md)
 - [[AutoSimTrans2022] **Over-Generation Cannot Be Rewarded: Length-Adaptive Average Lagging for Simultaneous Speech Translation**](fbk_works/LAAL.md)
 - [[IWSLT2022] **Who Are We Talking About? Handling Person Names in Speech Translation**](fbk_works/PERSON_NAMES_IWSLT2022.md)
 - [[IWSLT2022] **Efficient yet Competitive Speech Translation: FBK@IWSLT2022**](fbk_works/IWSLT_2022.md)

### 2021

 - [[EMNLP2021] **Speechformer: Reducing Information Loss in Direct Speech Translation**](fbk_works/SPEECHFORMER.md)


If using this repository, please acknowledge the related paper(s) citing them.
Bibtex citations are available for each work in the dedicated README file.

## Installation

To install the repository, do:

```
pip install -e .
pip install -r speech_requirements.txt  # required for speech translation
```


Below, there is the original Fairseq README file.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/fairseq_logo.png" width="150">
  <br />
  <br />
  <a href="https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/blob/master/LICENSE"><img alt="MIT License" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg" /></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/releases"><img alt="Latest Release" src="https://img.shields.io/github/release/pytorch/fairseq.svg" /></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/actions?query=workflow:build"><img alt="Build Status" src="https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/workflows/build/badge.svg" /></a>
  <a href="https://fairseq.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest"><img alt="Documentation Status" src="https://readthedocs.org/projects/fairseq/badge/?version=latest" /></a>
</p>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fairseq(-py) is a sequence modeling toolkit that allows researchers and
developers to train custom models for translation, summarization, language
modeling and other text generation tasks.

We provide reference implementations of various sequence modeling papers:

<details><summary>List of implemented papers</summary><p>

* **Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN)**
  + [Language Modeling with Gated Convolutional Networks (Dauphin et al., 2017)](examples/language_model/conv_lm/README.md)
  + [Convolutional Sequence to Sequence Learning (Gehring et al., 2017)](examples/conv_seq2seq/README.md)
  + [Classical Structured Prediction Losses for Sequence to Sequence Learning (Edunov et al., 2018)](https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/tree/classic_seqlevel)
  + [Hierarchical Neural Story Generation (Fan et al., 2018)](examples/stories/README.md)
  + [wav2vec: Unsupervised Pre-training for Speech Recognition (Schneider et al., 2019)](examples/wav2vec/README.md)
* **LightConv and DynamicConv models**
  + [Pay Less Attention with Lightweight and Dynamic Convolutions (Wu et al., 2019)](examples/pay_less_attention_paper/README.md)
* **Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks**
  + Effective Approaches to Attention-based Neural Machine Translation (Luong et al., 2015)
* **Transformer (self-attention) networks**
  + Attention Is All You Need (Vaswani et al., 2017)
  + [Scaling Neural Machine Translation (Ott et al., 2018)](examples/scaling_nmt/README.md)
  + [Understanding Back-Translation at Scale (Edunov et al., 2018)](examples/backtranslation/README.md)
  + [Adaptive Input Representations for Neural Language Modeling (Baevski and Auli, 2018)](examples/language_model/README.adaptive_inputs.md)
  + [Lexically constrained decoding with dynamic beam allocation (Post & Vilar, 2018)](examples/constrained_decoding/README.md)
  + [Transformer-XL: Attentive Language Models Beyond a Fixed-Length Context (Dai et al., 2019)](examples/truncated_bptt/README.md)
  + [Adaptive Attention Span in Transformers (Sukhbaatar et al., 2019)](examples/adaptive_span/README.md)
  + [Mixture Models for Diverse Machine Translation: Tricks of the Trade (Shen et al., 2019)](examples/translation_moe/README.md)
  + [RoBERTa: A Robustly Optimized BERT Pretraining Approach (Liu et al., 2019)](examples/roberta/README.md)
  + [Facebook FAIR's WMT19 News Translation Task Submission (Ng et al., 2019)](examples/wmt19/README.md)
  + [Jointly Learning to Align and Translate with Transformer Models (Garg et al., 2019)](examples/joint_alignment_translation/README.md )
  + [Multilingual Denoising Pre-training for Neural Machine Translation (Liu et at., 2020)](examples/mbart/README.md)
  + [Neural Machine Translation with Byte-Level Subwords (Wang et al., 2020)](examples/byte_level_bpe/README.md)
  + [Unsupervised Quality Estimation for Neural Machine Translation (Fomicheva et al., 2020)](examples/unsupervised_quality_estimation/README.md)
  + [wav2vec 2.0: A Framework for Self-Supervised Learning of Speech Representations (Baevski et al., 2020)](examples/wav2vec/README.md)
  + [Generating Medical Reports from Patient-Doctor Conversations Using Sequence-to-Sequence Models (Enarvi et al., 2020)](examples/pointer_generator/README.md)
  + [Linformer: Self-Attention with Linear Complexity (Wang et al., 2020)](examples/linformer/README.md)
  + [Cross-lingual Retrieval for Iterative Self-Supervised Training (Tran et al., 2020)](examples/criss/README.md)
  + [Deep Transformers with Latent Depth (Li et al., 2020)](examples/latent_depth/README.md)
* **Non-autoregressive Transformers**
  + Non-Autoregressive Neural Machine Translation (Gu et al., 2017)
  + Deterministic Non-Autoregressive Neural Sequence Modeling by Iterative Refinement (Lee et al. 2018)
  + Insertion Transformer: Flexible Sequence Generation via Insertion Operations (Stern et al. 2019)
  + Mask-Predict: Parallel Decoding of Conditional Masked Language Models (Ghazvininejad et al., 2019)
  + [Levenshtein Transformer (Gu et al., 2019)](examples/nonautoregressive_translation/README.md)
* **Finetuning**
  + [Better Fine-Tuning by Reducing Representational Collapse (Aghajanyan et al. 2020)](examples/rxf/README.md)

</p></details>

### What's New:

* December 2020: [GottBERT model and code released](examples/gottbert/README.md)
* November 2020: Adopted the [Hydra](https://github.com/facebookresearch/hydra) configuration framework
  * [see documentation explaining how to use it for new and existing projects](docs/hydra_integration.md)
* November 2020: [fairseq 0.10.0 released](https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/releases/tag/v0.10.0)
* October 2020: [Added R3F/R4F (Better Fine-Tuning) code](examples/rxf/README.md)
* October 2020: [Deep Transformer with Latent Depth code released](examples/latent_depth/README.md)
* October 2020: [Added CRISS models and code](examples/criss/README.md)
* September 2020: [Added Linformer code](examples/linformer/README.md)
* September 2020: [Added pointer-generator networks](examples/pointer_generator/README.md)
* August 2020: [Added lexically constrained decoding](examples/constrained_decoding/README.md)
* August 2020: [wav2vec2 models and code released](examples/wav2vec/README.md)
* July 2020: [Unsupervised Quality Estimation code released](examples/unsupervised_quality_estimation/README.md)

<details><summary>Previous updates</summary><p>

* May 2020: [Follow fairseq on Twitter](https://twitter.com/fairseq)
* April 2020: [Monotonic Multihead Attention code released](examples/simultaneous_translation/README.md)
* April 2020: [Quant-Noise code released](examples/quant_noise/README.md)
* April 2020: [Initial model parallel support and 11B parameters unidirectional LM released](examples/megatron_11b/README.md)
* March 2020: [Byte-level BPE code released](examples/byte_level_bpe/README.md)
* February 2020: [mBART model and code released](examples/mbart/README.md)
* February 2020: [Added tutorial for back-translation](https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/tree/master/examples/backtranslation#training-your-own-model-wmt18-english-german)
* December 2019: [fairseq 0.9.0 released](https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/releases/tag/v0.9.0)
* November 2019: [VizSeq released (a visual analysis toolkit for evaluating fairseq models)](https://facebookresearch.github.io/vizseq/docs/getting_started/fairseq_example)
* November 2019: [CamemBERT model and code released](examples/camembert/README.md)
* November 2019: [BART model and code released](examples/bart/README.md)
* November 2019: [XLM-R models and code released](examples/xlmr/README.md)
* September 2019: [Nonautoregressive translation code released](examples/nonautoregressive_translation/README.md)
* August 2019: [WMT'19 models released](examples/wmt19/README.md)
* July 2019: fairseq relicensed under MIT license
* July 2019: [RoBERTa models and code released](examples/roberta/README.md)
* June 2019: [wav2vec models and code released](examples/wav2vec/README.md)

</p></details>

### Features:

* multi-GPU training on one machine or across multiple machines (data and model parallel)
* fast generation on both CPU and GPU with multiple search algorithms implemented:
  + beam search
  + Diverse Beam Search ([Vijayakumar et al., 2016](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.02424))
  + sampling (unconstrained, top-k and top-p/nucleus)
  + [lexically constrained decoding](examples/constrained_decoding/README.md) (Post & Vilar, 2018)
* [gradient accumulation](https://fairseq.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started.html#large-mini-batch-training-with-delayed-updates) enables training with large mini-batches even on a single GPU
* [mixed precision training](https://fairseq.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started.html#training-with-half-precision-floating-point-fp16) (trains faster with less GPU memory on [NVIDIA tensor cores](https://developer.nvidia.com/tensor-cores))
* [extensible](https://fairseq.readthedocs.io/en/latest/overview.html): easily register new models, criterions, tasks, optimizers and learning rate schedulers
* [flexible configuration](docs/hydra_integration.md) based on [Hydra](https://github.com/facebookresearch/hydra) allowing a combination of code, command-line and file based configuration

We also provide [pre-trained models for translation and language modeling](#pre-trained-models-and-examples)
with a convenient `torch.hub` interface:

``` python
en2de = torch.hub.load('pytorch/fairseq', 'transformer.wmt19.en-de.single_model')
en2de.translate('Hello world', beam=5)
# 'Hallo Welt'
```

See the PyTorch Hub tutorials for [translation](https://pytorch.org/hub/pytorch_fairseq_translation/)
and [RoBERTa](https://pytorch.org/hub/pytorch_fairseq_roberta/) for more examples.

# Requirements and Installation

* [PyTorch](http://pytorch.org/) version >= 1.5.0
* Python version >= 3.6
* For training new models, you'll also need an NVIDIA GPU and [NCCL](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nccl)
* **To install fairseq** and develop locally:

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq
cd fairseq
pip install --editable ./

# on MacOS:
# CFLAGS="-stdlib=libc++" pip install --editable ./

# to install the latest stable release (0.10.0)
# pip install fairseq==0.10.0
```

* **For faster training** install NVIDIA's [apex](https://github.com/NVIDIA/apex) library:

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/NVIDIA/apex
cd apex
pip install -v --no-cache-dir --global-option="--cpp_ext" --global-option="--cuda_ext" \
  --global-option="--deprecated_fused_adam" --global-option="--xentropy" \
  --global-option="--fast_multihead_attn" ./
```

* **For large datasets** install [PyArrow](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/python/install.html#using-pip): `pip install pyarrow`
* If you use Docker make sure to increase the shared memory size either with `--ipc=host` or `--shm-size`
 as command line options to `nvidia-docker run` .

# Getting Started

The [full documentation](https://fairseq.readthedocs.io/) contains instructions
for getting started, training new models and extending fairseq with new model
types and tasks.

# Pre-trained models and examples

We provide pre-trained models and pre-processed, binarized test sets for several tasks listed below,
as well as example training and evaluation commands.

* [Translation](examples/translation/README.md): convolutional and transformer models are available
* [Language Modeling](examples/language_model/README.md): convolutional and transformer models are available

We also have more detailed READMEs to reproduce results from specific papers:

* [Cross-lingual Retrieval for Iterative Self-Supervised Training (Tran et al., 2020)](examples/criss/README.md)
* [wav2vec 2.0: A Framework for Self-Supervised Learning of Speech Representations (Baevski et al., 2020)](examples/wav2vec/README.md)
* [Unsupervised Quality Estimation for Neural Machine Translation (Fomicheva et al., 2020)](examples/unsupervised_quality_estimation/README.md)
* [Training with Quantization Noise for Extreme Model Compression ({Fan*, Stock*} et al., 2020)](examples/quant_noise/README.md)
* [Neural Machine Translation with Byte-Level Subwords (Wang et al., 2020)](examples/byte_level_bpe/README.md)
* [Multilingual Denoising Pre-training for Neural Machine Translation (Liu et at., 2020)](examples/mbart/README.md)
* [Reducing Transformer Depth on Demand with Structured Dropout (Fan et al., 2019)](examples/layerdrop/README.md)
* [Jointly Learning to Align and Translate with Transformer Models (Garg et al., 2019)](examples/joint_alignment_translation/README.md)
* [Levenshtein Transformer (Gu et al., 2019)](examples/nonautoregressive_translation/README.md)
* [Facebook FAIR's WMT19 News Translation Task Submission (Ng et al., 2019)](examples/wmt19/README.md)
* [RoBERTa: A Robustly Optimized BERT Pretraining Approach (Liu et al., 2019)](examples/roberta/README.md)
* [wav2vec: Unsupervised Pre-training for Speech Recognition (Schneider et al., 2019)](examples/wav2vec/README.md)
* [Mixture Models for Diverse Machine Translation: Tricks of the Trade (Shen et al., 2019)](examples/translation_moe/README.md)
* [Pay Less Attention with Lightweight and Dynamic Convolutions (Wu et al., 2019)](examples/pay_less_attention_paper/README.md)
* [Understanding Back-Translation at Scale (Edunov et al., 2018)](examples/backtranslation/README.md)
* [Classical Structured Prediction Losses for Sequence to Sequence Learning (Edunov et al., 2018)](https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/tree/classic_seqlevel)
* [Hierarchical Neural Story Generation (Fan et al., 2018)](examples/stories/README.md)
* [Scaling Neural Machine Translation (Ott et al., 2018)](examples/scaling_nmt/README.md)
* [Convolutional Sequence to Sequence Learning (Gehring et al., 2017)](examples/conv_seq2seq/README.md)
* [Language Modeling with Gated Convolutional Networks (Dauphin et al., 2017)](examples/language_model/README.conv.md)

# Join the fairseq community

* Twitter: https://twitter.com/fairseq
* Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/groups/fairseq.users
* Google group: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/fairseq-users

# License

fairseq(-py) is MIT-licensed.
The license applies to the pre-trained models as well.

# Citation

Please cite as:

``` bibtex
@inproceedings{ott2019fairseq,
  title = {fairseq: A Fast, Extensible Toolkit for Sequence Modeling},
  author = {Myle Ott and Sergey Edunov and Alexei Baevski and Angela Fan and Sam Gross and Nathan Ng and David Grangier and Michael Auli},
  booktitle = {Proceedings of NAACL-HLT 2019: Demonstrations},
  year = {2019},
}
```
