fbk_works/PERSON_NAMES_IWSLT2022.md, before:

# Training

The models trained on multi-ligual source audio described in the paper have been created with the following scripts:

 - **Base**

```bash
# To be run on 4 GPUs (K80)
fairseq-train $data_root \
	--train-subset $train_sets --valid-subset $dev_set \
	--save-dir $st_save_dir \
	--num-workers 4 --max-update 100000 --patience 5 \
	--max-tokens 5000 \
	--user-dir examples/speech_to_text \
	--task speech_to_text --config-yaml $config_st \
	--criterion label_smoothed_cross_entropy --label-smoothing 0.1 \
	--arch s2t_transformer_m_fbk \
	--distance-penalty log \
	--optimizer adam \
	--lr 2e-3 --lr-scheduler inverse_sqrt \
	--warmup-updates 10000 \
	--clip-norm 10.0 \
	--seed 9 --update-freq 16 --load-pretrained-encoder-from $asr_pretrained \
	--skip-invalid-size-inputs-valid-test > ${st_save_dir}train.log 2> ${st_save_dir}train.err
```

 - **Triangle**

```bash
# To be run on 4 GPUs (K80)
fairseq-train $data_root \
	--train-subset $train_sets --valid-subset $dev_set \
	--save-dir $st_save_dir \
	--num-workers 2 --max-update 100000 --patience 5 \
	--max-tokens 5000 \
	--user-dir examples/speech_to_text \
	--task speech_to_text_ctc --config-yaml $config_st \
	--criterion cross_entropy_dualdecoder --label-smoothing 0.1 \
	--arch s2t_transformer_triangle_m \
	--distance-penalty log \
	--optimizer adam --find-unused-parameters \
	--lr 2e-3 --lr-scheduler inverse_sqrt \
	--warmup-updates 10000 \
	--clip-norm 10.0 \
	--seed 9 --update-freq 16 --load-pretrained-encoder-from $asr_pretrained \
	--skip-invalid-size-inputs-valid-test > ${st_save_dir}train.log 2> ${st_save_dir}train.err
```

 - **Triangle λ<sub>asr</sub> = 0.8, λ<sub>st</sub> = 0.2**

```bash
# To be run on 4 GPUs (K80)
fairseq-train $data_root \
	--train-subset $train_sets --valid-subset $dev_set \
	--save-dir $st_save_dir \
	--num-workers 4 --max-update 100000 --patience 5 \
	--max-tokens 5000 \
	--user-dir examples/speech_to_text \
	--task speech_to_text_ctc --config-yaml $config_st \
	--criterion cross_entropy_dualdecoder --label-smoothing 0.1 \
	--arch s2t_transformer_triangle_m \
	--distance-penalty log \
	--optimizer adam --find-unused-parameters \
	--lr 2e-3 --lr-scheduler inverse_sqrt \
	--warmup-updates 10000 \
	--clip-norm 10.0 \
	--auxiliary-loss-weight 0.8 --primary-loss-weight 0.2 \
	--seed 9 --update-freq 16 --load-pretrained-encoder-from $asr_pretrained \
	--skip-invalid-size-inputs-valid-test > ${st_save_dir}train.log 2> ${st_save_dir}train.err
```

# Inference

The output of the triangle models can be obtained using this script:

```bash
python examples/speech_to_text/generate_dualdecoder.py $data_bin \
    --user-dir examples/speech_to_text \
    --config-yaml $conf_yaml --gen-subset $split \
    --max-tokens 10000 --model-overrides "{'load_pretrained_encoder_from':None}" \
    --beam 10 \
    --path $model_path \
    --max-source-positions 10000 --max-target-positions 1000 \
    --task speech_translation_dualdecoding  > $out_path
```

while for the base model, it can be obtained running:

```bash
python fairseq_cli/generate.py $data_bin \
    --user-dir examples/speech_to_text \
    --config-yaml $conf_yaml --gen-subset $split \
    --max-tokens 10000 \
    --beam 5 \
    --path $model_path \
    --max-source-positions 10000 --max-target-positions 1000 \
    --task speech_to_text  > $out_path
```

# Models

We here release the pre-trained models that we used in our experiments.
The models correspond to those reported in Table 7 of the paper.
For each language pair we release the Sentencepiece dictionaries,
the Fairseq configuration files, and the checkpoints.


| dictionaries | config | base | triangle | triangle_08 |
|--------------|--------|------|----------|-------------|
|   [all-es](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sli7_zFY-HbLuLay-odzWuGY6weEO0yD/view?usp=sharing)           |    [all-es](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1esJ6jffRV0iM5WNGGGlnOifBj2CJs0_W/view?usp=sharing)    |    [all-es](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tlblxSQR01OvPaWJyYAa4QdlEKBksfVa/view?usp=sharing)  |      [all-es](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1bqkBnQ5d-K7Mp4LGhI3NPlbyYO6jEMEE/view?usp=sharing)    |      [all-es](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11-OlUYX2HV1NqkEUCZCfOE1QuL9qxKUH/view?usp=sharing)       |
|   [all-fr](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-fLa4di9ucOBIzVHBVYWVIY3eM3IEIKe/view?usp=sharing)           |    [all-fr](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qmMPTm-oxip81c9muyvwiChr9nQE3eIP/view?usp=sharing)    |    [all-fr](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1yI-IozrjILJmIpYFoozYYmmzAE0DGYbk/view?usp=sharing)  |      [all-fr](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1CGrQyAeLhLArqMTfumnSuZ9hzdYcRY8w/view?usp=sharing)    |      [all-fr](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LJnUMwQhmChfWn-d0f_1QpcEGRK2sEQk/view?usp=sharing)       |
|   [all-it](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ZSTpDvunl8m0L8ebMjdq4lmZwjaIVhKy/view?usp=sharing)           |    [all-it](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wvt2cNMyAbtzJPnFqeljdodaaBFGxNaZ/view?usp=sharing)    |    [all-it](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1zO9nd39yqi-76nYLNe0RWxNXLktKbcC8/view?usp=sharing)  |      [all-it](https://drive.google.com/file/d/14HZa2RdPC5Pck2P9Uymrn7DBS4HbOZwI/view?usp=sharing)    |      [all-it](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1DsFHAMrWLly3oTGfvtPArKXd54BwAJYr/view?usp=sharing)       |


# Citation

```bibtex
@inproceedings{gaido-etal-2022-who,
    title = {{Who Are We Talking About? Handling Person Names in Speech Translation}},
    author = "Gaido, Marco  and Negri, Matteo  and Turchi, Marco",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Spoken Language Translation (IWSLT 2022)",
    year = "2022",
    address = "Dublin, Ireland",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics"
}
```

Commit message:

[!109][MISC] Improve IWSLT 2022 READMEs
# Why is the change needed?

While we now have a consolidated schema for writing READMEs
for each paper, early READMEs do not follow this schema and
miss important details (e.g., preprocessing steps) that prevent
users from easily work on them (see https://github.com/hlt-mt/FBK-fairseq/issues/1).

# What changes does the patch introduce?

Updates the READMEs of the two papers at IWSLT 2022 to follow
current schema and include missing information.

# How was this patch tested?

NA

fbk_works/PERSON_NAMES_IWSLT2022.md, after:

# Person Names Translation

## Training

Follow the [preprocessing steps of Speechformer](SPEECHFORMER.md#preprocessing) to preprocess the MuST-C data.
The models trained on multilingual source audio described in the paper have been created with the following scripts:

 - **Base**

```bash
# To be run on 4 GPUs (K80)
fairseq-train $data_root \
	--train-subset $train_sets --valid-subset $dev_set \
	--save-dir $st_save_dir \
	--num-workers 4 --max-update 100000 --patience 5 \
	--max-tokens 5000 \
	--user-dir examples/speech_to_text \
	--task speech_to_text --config-yaml $config_st \
	--criterion label_smoothed_cross_entropy --label-smoothing 0.1 \
	--arch s2t_transformer_m_fbk \
	--distance-penalty log \
	--optimizer adam \
	--lr 2e-3 --lr-scheduler inverse_sqrt \
	--warmup-updates 10000 \
	--clip-norm 10.0 \
	--seed 9 --update-freq 16 --load-pretrained-encoder-from $asr_pretrained \
	--skip-invalid-size-inputs-valid-test > ${st_save_dir}train.log 2> ${st_save_dir}train.err
```

 - **Triangle**

```bash
# To be run on 4 GPUs (K80)
fairseq-train $data_root \
	--train-subset $train_sets --valid-subset $dev_set \
	--save-dir $st_save_dir \
	--num-workers 2 --max-update 100000 --patience 5 \
	--max-tokens 5000 \
	--user-dir examples/speech_to_text \
	--task speech_to_text_ctc --config-yaml $config_st \
	--criterion cross_entropy_dualdecoder --label-smoothing 0.1 \
	--arch s2t_transformer_triangle_m \
	--distance-penalty log \
	--optimizer adam --find-unused-parameters \
	--lr 2e-3 --lr-scheduler inverse_sqrt \
	--warmup-updates 10000 \
	--clip-norm 10.0 \
	--seed 9 --update-freq 16 --load-pretrained-encoder-from $asr_pretrained \
	--skip-invalid-size-inputs-valid-test > ${st_save_dir}train.log 2> ${st_save_dir}train.err
```

 - **Triangle λ<sub>asr</sub> = 0.8, λ<sub>st</sub> = 0.2**

```bash
# To be run on 4 GPUs (K80)
fairseq-train $data_root \
	--train-subset $train_sets --valid-subset $dev_set \
	--save-dir $st_save_dir \
	--num-workers 4 --max-update 100000 --patience 5 \
	--max-tokens 5000 \
	--user-dir examples/speech_to_text \
	--task speech_to_text_ctc --config-yaml $config_st \
	--criterion cross_entropy_dualdecoder --label-smoothing 0.1 \
	--arch s2t_transformer_triangle_m \
	--distance-penalty log \
	--optimizer adam --find-unused-parameters \
	--lr 2e-3 --lr-scheduler inverse_sqrt \
	--warmup-updates 10000 \
	--clip-norm 10.0 \
	--auxiliary-loss-weight 0.8 --primary-loss-weight 0.2 \
	--seed 9 --update-freq 16 --load-pretrained-encoder-from $asr_pretrained \
	--skip-invalid-size-inputs-valid-test > ${st_save_dir}train.log 2> ${st_save_dir}train.err
```

## Inference

The output of the triangle models can be obtained using this script:

```bash
python examples/speech_to_text/generate_dualdecoder.py $data_bin \
    --user-dir examples/speech_to_text \
    --config-yaml $conf_yaml --gen-subset $split \
    --max-tokens 10000 --model-overrides "{'load_pretrained_encoder_from':None}" \
    --beam 10 \
    --path $model_path \
    --max-source-positions 10000 --max-target-positions 1000 \
    --task speech_translation_dualdecoding  > $out_path
```

while for the base model, it can be obtained running:

```bash
python fairseq_cli/generate.py $data_bin \
    --user-dir examples/speech_to_text \
    --config-yaml $conf_yaml --gen-subset $split \
    --max-tokens 10000 \
    --beam 5 \
    --path $model_path \
    --max-source-positions 10000 --max-target-positions 1000 \
    --task speech_to_text  > $out_path
```

## Models

We here release the pre-trained models that we used in our experiments.
The models correspond to those reported in Table 7 of the paper.
For each language pair we release the Sentencepiece dictionaries,
the Fairseq configuration files, and the checkpoints.


| dictionaries | config | base | triangle | triangle_08 |
|--------------|--------|------|----------|-------------|
|   [all-es](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sli7_zFY-HbLuLay-odzWuGY6weEO0yD/view?usp=sharing)           |    [all-es](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1esJ6jffRV0iM5WNGGGlnOifBj2CJs0_W/view?usp=sharing)    |    [all-es](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tlblxSQR01OvPaWJyYAa4QdlEKBksfVa/view?usp=sharing)  |      [all-es](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1bqkBnQ5d-K7Mp4LGhI3NPlbyYO6jEMEE/view?usp=sharing)    |      [all-es](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11-OlUYX2HV1NqkEUCZCfOE1QuL9qxKUH/view?usp=sharing)       |
|   [all-fr](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-fLa4di9ucOBIzVHBVYWVIY3eM3IEIKe/view?usp=sharing)           |    [all-fr](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qmMPTm-oxip81c9muyvwiChr9nQE3eIP/view?usp=sharing)    |    [all-fr](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1yI-IozrjILJmIpYFoozYYmmzAE0DGYbk/view?usp=sharing)  |      [all-fr](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1CGrQyAeLhLArqMTfumnSuZ9hzdYcRY8w/view?usp=sharing)    |      [all-fr](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LJnUMwQhmChfWn-d0f_1QpcEGRK2sEQk/view?usp=sharing)       |
|   [all-it](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ZSTpDvunl8m0L8ebMjdq4lmZwjaIVhKy/view?usp=sharing)           |    [all-it](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wvt2cNMyAbtzJPnFqeljdodaaBFGxNaZ/view?usp=sharing)    |    [all-it](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1zO9nd39yqi-76nYLNe0RWxNXLktKbcC8/view?usp=sharing)  |      [all-it](https://drive.google.com/file/d/14HZa2RdPC5Pck2P9Uymrn7DBS4HbOZwI/view?usp=sharing)    |      [all-it](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1DsFHAMrWLly3oTGfvtPArKXd54BwAJYr/view?usp=sharing)       |


## Citation

```bibtex
@inproceedings{gaido-etal-2022-who,
    title = {{Who Are We Talking About? Handling Person Names in Speech Translation}},
    author = "Gaido, Marco  and Negri, Matteo  and Turchi, Marco",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Spoken Language Translation (IWSLT 2022)",
    year = "2022",
    address = "Dublin, Ireland",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics"
}
```
