fbk_works/SUBTITLE_SEGMENTER_AACL2022.md, before:

# Multimodal Subtitle Segmenter (AACL 2022)

Code for the paper: 
[Dodging the Data Bottleneck: Automatic Subtitling with Automatically Segmented ST Corpora](https://aclanthology.org/2022.aacl-short.59.pdf).

## Pre-trained multimodal model
We here release the multilingual multimodal model with parallel attention (Figure 1) used for the paper:
- [model_checkpoint](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ACzTPG3UgK173cPXIRsz1gp8NldRw4uV/view?usp=share_link) | [config.yaml](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Yttj2QnSPJnrgFqwbRV-wPVifMsE8pWd/view?usp=share_link) | [spm_model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KiuTxVUFsIP9-K3Hc_ggubDp-FW_-aKh/view?usp=share_link) | [fairseq_vocabulary](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wJtiXzIDQMdNOeL0GjlgdMisqsger0qi/view?usp=share_link)

## Preprocessing
Preprocess the [MuST-Cinema](https://ict.fbk.eu/must-cinema/) dataset as already explained 
[here](https://github.com/hlt-mt/FBK-fairseq/blob/master/fbk_works/SPEECHFORMER.md#preprocessing).
Then, run the following code:
```bash
for subset in train dev amara; do
        cut -f 5 ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}_st_src.tsv > \
         ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}.${lang}.multimod
        sed 's/<eob>//g; s/<eol>//g; s/  / /g; s/^ //g; s/ $//g' \
         ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}.${LANG}.multimod > \
         ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}.${LANG}.multimod.unsegm
        paste ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}_st_src.tsv \
        ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}.${LANG}.multimod.unsegm \
        | cut -f 1,2,3,5,6,7 > ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}_multi_segm.tsv

        sed -i '1s/tgt_text$/src_text/g' ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}_multi_segm.tsv
        done
```
where `DATA_ROOT` is the folder containing the preprocessed data, `LANG` is the language 
(en, de, fr, it for train, dev, and amara sets and es, nl only for the amara set).
Lastly, add the target language as a tsv column to enable Fairseq-ST multiligual training/inference for each subset and 
for each language:
```bash
awk 'NR==1 {printf("%s\t%s\n", $0, "tgt_lang")}  NR>1 {printf("%s\t%s\n", $0, "'"${LANG}"'")}' \
  ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}_multi_segm.tsv > ${DATA_ROOT}/${subset}_${LANG}_multi.tsv
```

To generate a unique SentencePiece model and, consequently, vocabulary for all the training languages 
(as we do in our paper), run the script below:
```bash
python ${FBK_fairseq}/examples/speech_to_text/scripts/gen_multilang_spm_vocab.py \
  --data-root ${DATA_ROOT} --save-dir ${DATA_ROOT} \
  --langs en,de,fr,it --splits train_en_multi,train_de_multi,train_fr_multi,train_it_multi \
  --vocab-type unigram --vocab-size 10000
```

## Training
To train the multilingual multimodal model with parallel attention, run the code below:
```bash
python ${FBK_fairseq}/train.py ${DATA_ROOT} \
        --train-subset train_de_multi,train_en_multi,train_fr_multi,train_it_multi \
        --valid-subset dev_de_multi,dev_en_multi,dev_fr_multi,dev_it_multi \
        --save-dir ${SAVE_DIR} \
        --num-workers 2 --max-update 200000 \
        --max-tokens 40000 \
        --user-dir examples/speech_to_text \
        --task speech_to_text_multimodal --config-yaml ${CONFIG_YAML}  \
        --criterion ctc_multi_loss --underlying-criterion label_smoothed_cross_entropy \
        --label-smoothing 0.1 \
        --arch s2t_transformer_dual_encoder_s \
        --ctc-encoder-layer 8 --ctc-compress-strategy avg --ctc-weight 0.5 \
        --context-encoder-layers 12 --decoder-layers 3 \
        --context-dropout 0.3 --context-ffn-embed-dim 1024 \
        --share-encoder-decoder-embed \
        --context-decoder-attention-type parallel \
        --optimizer adam --lr 1e-3 --lr-scheduler inverse_sqrt \
        --warmup-updates 10000 \
        --clip-norm 10.0 \
        --seed 1 --update-freq 4 \
        --patience 15 \
        --ignore-prefix-size 1 \
        --skip-invalid-size-inputs-valid-test \
        --log-format simple --find-unused-parameters
```
where `FBK_fairseq` is the folder of our repository, `DATA_ROOT` is the folder containing the preprocessed data, 
`SAVE_DIR` is the folder in which to save the checkpoints of the model, `CONFIG_YAML` is the path to the config 
yaml file.

This training setup is intended for 2 NVIDIA A40 48GB, please adjust `--max-tokens` and `--update-freq` such as 
`max_tokens * update_freq * number of GPUs used for training = 320,000`.

## Generation
First, average the checkpoint as already explained in our repository 
[here](https://github.com/hlt-mt/FBK-fairseq/blob/master/fbk_works/SPEECHFORMER.md#generate).

Second, run the code below:
```bash
python ${FBK_fairseq}/generate.py ${DATA_ROOT} \
      --config-yaml ${CONFIG_YAML} --gen-subset amara_${LANG}_multi \
      --task speech_to_text_multimodal \
      --criterion ctc_multi_loss --underlying-criterion label_smoothed_cross_entropy \
      --user-dir examples/speech_to_text \
      --path ${SAVE_DIR}/${CHECKPOINT_FILENAME} \
      --max-tokens 25000 --beam 5 --scoring sacrebleu \
      --results-path ${SAVE_DIR}
```
where `LANG` is the language selected for inference (in our paper, Spanish or es and Dutch or nl for the zero-shot 
results) and `CHECKPOINT_FILENAME` is the file containing the average of the checkpoints of the previous step.

Please use [sacrebleu](https://github.com/mjpost/sacrebleu) to obtain BLEU scores and 
[EvalSubtitle](https://github.com/fyvo/EvalSubtitle) to obtain Sigma and CPL.
 
## Citation
```bibtex
@inproceedings{papi-etal-2022-dodging,
    title = "Dodging the Data Bottleneck: Automatic Subtitling with Automatically Segmented {ST} Corpora",
    author = "Papi, Sara  and
      Karakanta, Alina  and
      Negri, Matteo  and
      Turchi, Marco",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 2nd Conference of the Asia-Pacific Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 12th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 2: Short Papers)",
    month = nov,
    year = "2022",
    address = "Online only",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2022.aacl-short.59",
    pages = "480--487",
    }
```

Commit message:

[!114][SUBTITLING] Add multimodal segmenter trained on all MuST-Cinema languages
# Which work do we release?
We release an additional multimodal segmenter linked to the work Dodging the Data Bottleneck by Papi et al. 2022, which is trained on all the languages of MuST-Cinema.

# What changes does this release refer to?
N/A, it adds a new model with new results.

fbk_works/SUBTITLE_SEGMENTER_AACL2022.md, after:

# Multimodal Subtitle Segmenter (AACL 2022)

Code for the paper: 
[Dodging the Data Bottleneck: Automatic Subtitling with Automatically Segmented ST Corpora](https://aclanthology.org/2022.aacl-short.59.pdf).

## Pre-trained multimodal models
We here release the multilingual multimodal models with parallel attention (Figure 1 in the paper). 
The original model used in the paper is `de_en_fr_it`.
We also release another version of the segmenter trained on all MuST-Cinema languages,
which provides overall higher scores for the languages that are not covered by the `de_en_fr_it` model.
- **de_en_fr_it**: [checkpoint](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ACzTPG3UgK173cPXIRsz1gp8NldRw4uV/view?usp=share_link) | [config.yaml](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Yttj2QnSPJnrgFqwbRV-wPVifMsE8pWd/view?usp=share_link) | [spm_model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KiuTxVUFsIP9-K3Hc_ggubDp-FW_-aKh/view?usp=share_link) | [fairseq_vocabulary](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wJtiXzIDQMdNOeL0GjlgdMisqsger0qi/view?usp=share_link)
- **all_langs**: [checkpoint](https://fbk-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/personal/spapi_fbk_eu/Documents/subtitling/segmenter/checkpoint_avg7.pt?csf=1&web=1&e=1epB74) | [config.yaml](https://fbk-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/personal/spapi_fbk_eu/Documents/subtitling/segmenter/config_multi_all_lang.yaml?csf=1&web=1&e=F96hj0) | [spm_model](https://fbk-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/g/personal/spapi_fbk_eu/EYagCJS5-KBElYZvSP7GG_gBpyySyDQHYRhFb5k1u66Qkw?e=5qM8SG) | [fairseq_vocabulary](https://fbk-my.sharepoint.com/:t:/r/personal/spapi_fbk_eu/Documents/subtitling/segmenter/spm_unigram16000_multi_all_lang.txt?csf=1&web=1&e=cMZbr7)

| Results (Sigma-CPL%) | de        | en        | es        | fr        | it        | nl        | pt        | ro        |
|----------------------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|
| de_en_fr_it          | 86.4-89.1 | 88.2-94.6 | 81.2-89.3 | 86.7-93.3 | 85.5-89.3 | 81.2-89.0 | 81.4-89.3 | 75.3-83.3 |
| all_langs            | 86.3-88.4 | 87.1-94.4 | 84.5-93.0 | 87.1-93.2 | 85.2-89.6 | 86.5-86.0 | 87.2-89.6 | 86.6-91.4 |

## Preprocessing
Preprocess the [MuST-Cinema](https://ict.fbk.eu/must-cinema/) dataset as already explained 
[here](https://github.com/hlt-mt/FBK-fairseq/blob/master/fbk_works/SPEECHFORMER.md#preprocessing).
Then, run the following code:
```bash
for subset in train dev amara; do
        cut -f 5 ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}_st_src.tsv > \
         ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}.${lang}.multimod
        sed 's/<eob>//g; s/<eol>//g; s/  / /g; s/^ //g; s/ $//g' \
         ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}.${LANG}.multimod > \
         ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}.${LANG}.multimod.unsegm
        paste ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}_st_src.tsv \
        ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}.${LANG}.multimod.unsegm \
        | cut -f 1,2,3,5,6,7 > ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}_multi_segm.tsv

        sed -i '1s/tgt_text$/src_text/g' ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}_multi_segm.tsv
        done
```
where `DATA_ROOT` is the folder containing the preprocessed data, `LANG` is the language 
(en, de, fr, it for train, dev, and amara sets and es, nl only for the amara set).
Lastly, add the target language as a tsv column to enable Fairseq-ST multiligual training/inference for each subset and 
for each language:
```bash
awk 'NR==1 {printf("%s\t%s\n", $0, "tgt_lang")}  NR>1 {printf("%s\t%s\n", $0, "'"${LANG}"'")}' \
  ${DATA_ROOT}/en-${LANG}/${subset}_multi_segm.tsv > ${DATA_ROOT}/${subset}_${LANG}_multi.tsv
```

To generate a unique SentencePiece model and, consequently, vocabulary for all the training languages 
(as we do in our paper), run the script below:
```bash
python ${FBK_fairseq}/examples/speech_to_text/scripts/gen_multilang_spm_vocab.py \
  --data-root ${DATA_ROOT} --save-dir ${DATA_ROOT} \
  --langs en,de,fr,it --splits train_en_multi,train_de_multi,train_fr_multi,train_it_multi \
  --vocab-type unigram --vocab-size 10000
```

## Training
To train the multilingual multimodal model with parallel attention, run the code below:
```bash
python ${FBK_fairseq}/train.py ${DATA_ROOT} \
        --train-subset train_de_multi,train_en_multi,train_fr_multi,train_it_multi \
        --valid-subset dev_de_multi,dev_en_multi,dev_fr_multi,dev_it_multi \
        --save-dir ${SAVE_DIR} \
        --num-workers 2 --max-update 200000 \
        --max-tokens 40000 \
        --user-dir examples/speech_to_text \
        --task speech_to_text_multimodal --config-yaml ${CONFIG_YAML}  \
        --criterion ctc_multi_loss --underlying-criterion label_smoothed_cross_entropy \
        --label-smoothing 0.1 \
        --arch s2t_transformer_dual_encoder_s \
        --ctc-encoder-layer 8 --ctc-compress-strategy avg --ctc-weight 0.5 \
        --context-encoder-layers 12 --decoder-layers 3 \
        --context-dropout 0.3 --context-ffn-embed-dim 1024 \
        --share-encoder-decoder-embed \
        --context-decoder-attention-type parallel \
        --optimizer adam --lr 1e-3 --lr-scheduler inverse_sqrt \
        --warmup-updates 10000 \
        --clip-norm 10.0 \
        --seed 1 --update-freq 4 \
        --patience 15 \
        --ignore-prefix-size 1 \
        --skip-invalid-size-inputs-valid-test \
        --log-format simple --find-unused-parameters
```
where `FBK_fairseq` is the folder of our repository, `DATA_ROOT` is the folder containing the preprocessed data, 
`SAVE_DIR` is the folder in which to save the checkpoints of the model, `CONFIG_YAML` is the path to the config 
yaml file.

This training setup is intended for 2 NVIDIA A40 48GB, please adjust `--max-tokens` and `--update-freq` such as 
`max_tokens * update_freq * number of GPUs used for training = 320,000`.

## Generation
First, average the checkpoint as already explained in our repository 
[here](https://github.com/hlt-mt/FBK-fairseq/blob/master/fbk_works/SPEECHFORMER.md#generate).

Second, run the code below:
```bash
python ${FBK_fairseq}/generate.py ${DATA_ROOT} \
      --config-yaml ${CONFIG_YAML} --gen-subset amara_${LANG}_multi \
      --task speech_to_text_multimodal \
      --criterion ctc_multi_loss --underlying-criterion label_smoothed_cross_entropy \
      --user-dir examples/speech_to_text \
      --path ${SAVE_DIR}/${CHECKPOINT_FILENAME} \
      --max-tokens 25000 --beam 5 --scoring sacrebleu \
      --results-path ${SAVE_DIR}
```
where `LANG` is the language selected for inference and `CHECKPOINT_FILENAME` is the file containing the average of the checkpoints of the previous step.

Please use [sacrebleu](https://github.com/mjpost/sacrebleu) to obtain BLEU scores and 
[EvalSubtitle](https://github.com/fyvo/EvalSubtitle) to obtain Sigma and CPL.
 
## Citation
```bibtex
@inproceedings{papi-etal-2022-dodging,
    title = "Dodging the Data Bottleneck: Automatic Subtitling with Automatically Segmented {ST} Corpora",
    author = "Papi, Sara  and
      Karakanta, Alina  and
      Negri, Matteo  and
      Turchi, Marco",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 2nd Conference of the Asia-Pacific Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 12th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 2: Short Papers)",
    month = nov,
    year = "2022",
    address = "Online only",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2022.aacl-short.59",
    pages = "480--487",
    }
```
